# 2025 UBNA field records: after February 24th 2025

All dates and times were recorded in UTC and following ISO8601 format.

## Locations

**General recording sites**:
- Telephone Field 
- Foliage
- Central Pond
- Carp Pond
- E18 Bridge

## Recorders
Recorders are configured with 256GB SD cards and can take up to 9 batteries. 

**Configuration**: 192kHz sampling rate and 00:00 to 24:00 UTC. 5 min ON, 5 min OFF sleep-cycle recording. With this configuration, deployment is expected to at least last 1 week.

**Further updates**: 

(Any changes to the deployment scheme will be posted here)
- 1/27/2025 onwards, information cards were added with each Audiomoth to prevent tampering.
- 2/10/2025 onwards, hard drive `ubna_data_04` ran out of space so data needed to be uploaded into a new drive `ubna_data_05` which was created by wiping and renaming `ubna_data_01`
- 2/10/2025 onwards, camo tape started being used to cover up Audiomoths and prevent tampering.
- 2-week deployments became difficult to continue due to loss of data in the 2nd half of all deployments. So 3/3/2025 onwards, we will be doing 1-week deployments to guarantee data recovery.
- 5/23/2025 onwards, hard drive `ubna_data_05 ` ran out of space so data needed to be uploaded into a new drive `ubna_data_06` which was created by wiping and renaming `ubna_data_02_mir`
- 7/24/2025 onwards, Audiomoths are deployed for two weeks with a 1-week check-in in between each deployment, where we check voltage of each Audiomoth and bring extras to replace Audiomoths that have issues or low voltage
- 7/24/2025 onwards, all Audiomoths are deployed with 256GB SD cards
- 7/24/2025 onwards, 3 Audiomoths (O, A, and N) have been deployed every two weeks in the Audiomoth Dev cases using 3 D-cell batteries each
- D-cell batteries start to get charged during the 1-week check-in before their deployment
- 8/28/2025 onwards, silica gel packets are placed in bags and cases to prevent excess moisture
- 12/26/2025 onwards, hard drive `ubna_data_06` ran out of space so data needed to be uploaded into a temporary 4TB drive until `ubna_data_07` is set up

